Oathkeeper blog (#401)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2019-07-30-kyma-collaboration-with-ory/index.md

Based on the positive results of the POC, we decided to focus our efforts on integrating Kyma with the Ory ecosystem. To facilitate this integration, we sat down with the developers from Ory during a workshop that helped to work out a plan of how to integrate our solutions and how the Kyma team will contribute to Ory's solution. 

So how's the solution of Ory going to be used in Kyma? In the target setup, Kyma deployments will come with 3 Ory components: the Hydra OAuth2 server, the Oathkeeper reverse proxy that secures the exposed service, and the Oathkeeper Controller, which manages access rules for Oathkeeper. Kyma users will register their own OAuth clients in the Console UI and define access rules for their APIs. Thanks to that, every application will be able to get its own OAuth token and communicate with the exposed API. 

![Oauth2 flow in API Gateway](./oathkeeper-gateway.svg)

The role of the Kyma team in this setup is very clear - we are to create the Oathkeeper controller component and contribute it to Ory's ecosystem. 

> At the moment, the Oathkeeper is not designed to be used natively in Kubernetes as the configuration can be provided to this component only through an external server that provides the config, or directly through a file. Feeding the configuration to Oathkeeper through a CRD, which is a Kubernetes-native approach, is not supported. The Oathkeeper Controller is going to address this gap. Kubernetes users will be able to create custom resources that represent access rules for their services. The Controller will then pass this data to Oathkeeper in a format which it can work with without any additional modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, the Oathkeeper is not designed to be used natively in Kubernetes as the configuration can be provided to this component only through an external server that provides the config, or directly through a file. Feeding the configuration to Oathkeeper in Kubernetes-native way using [Custom Resource Definition (CRD)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/#customresourcedefinitions) is not supported. The Oathkeeper Controller is going to address this gap. Kubernetes users will be able to create custom resources that represent access rules for their services. The Controller will then pass this data to Oathkeeper in a format which it can work with without any additional modification.
```

![Register access rule](./controller.svg)

> This collaboration is going to bring great value to Kyma and Ory(Kyma supports OAuth2, Ory supports kubernetes CRDs), and we're extremely excited that we're sailing the seas with the guys from Ory. Be sure to check out their solutions and follow our blog and releases to see how this adventure ends. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This collaboration is going to bring great value to Kyma and Ory(Kyma supports OAuth2, Ory supports Kubernetes CRDs), and we're extremely excited that we're sailing the seas with the guys from Ory. Be sure to check out their solutions and follow our blog and releases to see how this adventure ends. 
```
